feat: global toleration and affinity documentation. (#426)
kubewarden/docs: docs/howtos/production-deployments.md

---
sidebar_label: Production deployments
title: Configuring Kubewarden stack for production
description: Configuring Kubewarden stack for production
keywords:
  [
    kubewarden,
    kubernetes,
    policyservers,
    production,
    poddisruptionbudget,
    affinity,
    limits,
    tolerations,
  ]
doc-persona: [kubewarden-operator, kubewarden-integrator]
doc-type: [howto]
doc-topic:
  [
    operator-manual,
    policy-servers,
    production,
    poddisruptionbudget,
    affinity,
    limits,
    tolerations,
  ]
---

> # Configuring Tolerations and Affinity/Anti-Affinity for the Kubewarden Stack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Configuring Tolerations and Affinity/Anti-Affinity for the Kubewarden stack
```

> Kubewarden provides robust mechanisms to ensure the reliability and proper
> scheduling of its components within a Kubernetes cluster. Starting from version
> 1.15 of the Kubewarden Helm charts, two new fields, `tolerations` and
> `affinity`, have been introduced under the `global` value. These fields allow
> users to define Kubernetes tolerations and affinity/anti-affinity settings for
> the Kubewarden stack, including the controller deployment, audit scanner
> cronjob, and the PolicyServer custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubewarden provides features for reliability and correct
scheduling of its components in a Kubernetes cluster. 

Starting from version
1.15 of the Kubewarden Helm charts, two new fields, `tolerations` and
`affinity`, are introduced under the `global` value. These fields allow
users to define Kubernetes tolerations and affinity/anti-affinity settings for
the Kubewarden stack, including the controller deployment, audit scanner
cronjob, and the PolicyServer custom resource.
```

## Tolerations

The `tolerations` field is an array where users can specify Kubernetes
tolerations for the Kubewarden components. Tolerations allow pods to be
scheduled on nodes with matching taints. This is useful for managing where pods
can be scheduled, especially in scenarios involving node maintenance, dedicated
workloads, or specific hardware requirements:

```yaml
global:
  tolerations:
    - key: "key1"
      operator: "Equal"
      value: "value1"
      effect: "NoSchedule"
    - key: "key2"
      operator: "Equal"
      value: "value2"
      effect: "NoExecute"
```

> In this example, the tolerations defined will be applied to the controller
> deployment, audit scanner cronjob, and the PolicyServer custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the tolerations defined are applied to the controller
deployment, audit scanner cronjob, and the PolicyServer custom resource.
```

## Affinity/Anti-Affinity

The `affinity` field allows users to define Kubernetes affinity and
anti-affinity rules for the Kubewarden components. Affinity rules constrain
pods to specific nodes, while anti-affinity rules prevent pods from being
scheduled on certain nodes or in close proximity to other pods. These settings

> are crucial for ensuring high availability, fault tolerance, and optimized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are useful for ensuring high availability, fault tolerance, and optimized
```

> resource usage within the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resource usage in a cluster.
```

          labelSelector:
            matchExpressions:
            - key: security
              operator: In
              values:
              - S2
          topologyKey: topology.kubernetes.io/zone
    nodeAffinity:
      requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        nodeSelectorTerms:
        - matchExpressions:
          - key: kubernetes.io/os
            operator: In
            values:
            - linux
      preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
      - weight: 1
        preference:
          matchExpressions:
          - key: label-1
            operator: In
            values:
            - key-1
      - weight: 50
        preference:
          matchExpressions:
          - key: label-2
            operator: In
            values:
            - key-2
```

In this example, the affinity rules will be applied to the controller
deployment, audit scanner cronjob, and the PolicyServer custom resource.

The previous affinity configuration available in the `kubewarden-default` Helm
chart, which was used to define the affinity configuration for the PolicyServer
only, has been removed in favor of the global `affinity` field. This change

> simplifies the configuration process by providing a single, unified approach to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simplifies the configuration process by providing a single approach to
```

defining affinity and anti-affinity rules for all Kubewarden components.

:::warning The old `affinity` configuration in the `kubewarden-default` Helm
chart has been deprecated and removed. Users should now use the
`global.affinity` field to configure affinity and anti-affinity settings for
the entire Kubewarden stack. 
:::

> By leveraging the `tolerations` and `affinity` fields, operators can fine-tune

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using the `tolerations` and `affinity` fields, operators can fine-tune
```

              - S2
          topologyKey: topology.kubernetes.io/zone
    nodeAffinity:
      requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
        nodeSelectorTerms:
        - matchExpressions:
          - key: kubernetes.io/os
            operator: In
            values:
            - linux
      preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
      - weight: 1
        preference:
          matchExpressions:
          - key: label-1
            operator: In
            values:
            - key-1
      - weight: 50
        preference:
          matchExpressions:
          - key: label-2
            operator: In
            values:
            - key-2
```

In this example, the affinity rules will be applied to the controller
deployment, audit scanner cronjob, and the PolicyServer custom resource.

The previous affinity configuration available in the `kubewarden-default` Helm
chart, which was used to define the affinity configuration for the PolicyServer
only, has been removed in favor of the global `affinity` field. This change
simplifies the configuration process by providing a single approach to
defining affinity and anti-affinity rules for all Kubewarden components.

> :::warning The old `affinity` configuration in the `kubewarden-default` Helm
> chart has been deprecated and removed. Users should now use the

Reviewer 2: Something cannot be deprecated and removed at the same time. AFAIK we went straight to remove it

```suggestion
:::warning The old `affinity` configuration in the `kubewarden-default` Helm
chart has been removed. Users should now use the
```
